# Roadmap
#### 1 - Placeholder Item Assets
Add a variety of basic household items, each represented by a placeholder static image.
- Bedroom
	- Bed
- Bathroom
	- Shower
	- Toilet
- Kitchen
	- Fridge/freezer
	- Oven
	- Trash can
	- Food item
#### 2 - Placeholder Item Interactions
Add basic interactions to test NPC pathing / basic interaction logic.
- Bed: immediately puts NPCs to sleep for 8 hours while they stand next to it. While sleeping, NPCs do not perform any computation except during "dreams". On the simulation side, the only action needed is to notify the NPC module that dreaming has started and give it a target time at which to stop dreaming. See [[2024.12 Memory Maintenance]] for details on how this process will work in the NPC module.
- Shower: fills the NPC's hygiene need while they stand next to it
- Toilet: fills NPC's bladder need while they stand next to it
- Fridge/freezer: sets food item condition to max
- Oven: has a fixed set of recipes, each of which take different amounts of time
- Trash can: requires a trash bag, can store a fixed number of items before needing to be emptied
	- Trash bag: comes from a trash bag container, is never shown on screen, just in inventories
- Food item: one of a fixed set of ingredients and cooked items

#### 3 - NPC-to-NPC interactions
Add basic conversations. The actual content of the conversations is determined by the NPC module (see [[2024.12 Conversations]]).
- Starting a conversation: To initiate a conversation, an NPC needs to propose a conversation as an action (could be very short, even just saying hi in passing) to a set of other nearby NPCs. All NPCs need to be within a certain distance for the conversation to continue. 
- Ending a conversation: Any NPC can leave the conversation at any time.

#### 4 - Simulated Item Interactions
Make each item interactable by simulating the effect it would have on items, NPCs, or any other objects in the simulation.
- The outcome of using each item will be determined using a mixture of programmatic logic and LLM (optionally with internet-access for better simulation accuracy) prompting. Items will generally possess sensors that determine the simulation input (e.g., items inside an appliance, conditions inside an appliance, NPCs using the appliance). Some items may include built-in tools that the LLM can use for improved simulation fidelity (e.g., computers/phones running simple terminal-based operating systems).

Programmatic Simulation Ideas
- Enterables: This includes items like beds, showers, or toilets where the NPC will occupy the same tile as the item while using it. Implement the NPC being able to occupy the same tile in a visually appropriate way (laying on bed, water + steam animation for shower, etc.)
LLM Simulation Ideas
- Containers: Calculate storage limit for items by choosing a maximum volume and estimating each item's volume using a Perplexity query.
	- Changes to item volumes: After the initial query establishing the volume of an item, volume can be modified by being consumed in some way (items evaporating, being drank/eaten, burned, transformed etc.) or being split into different containers. The amount of evaporation, eaten volume in a sitting, etc. will be determined by an LLM, while container splitting can be handled programmatically.
	- Item mixing: Items in the same container can be mixed together to form new items under the right (LLM-determined) conditions (e.g., butter and flour under medium heat -> roux).
- Bed: sleep quality depends on bed quality and NPC state
- Kitchen appliances: Calculate food status (condition in fridge/freezer, how cooking is going in oven/stovetop, etc.) by giving the LLM information about the food item, previous status (computed on demand when the food item is inspected), time since previous status update, appliance information, and the skill of the NPC cooking (if the food is currently being cooked). The LLM should be instructed to look up information from culinary sources, and apply physics principles where necessary.
- Item variations: The effectiveness of an appliance at its intended effect will be determined by appliance quality and the using NPC's skills/status
- Screens: Screen can be animated with one of a limited set of looped gifs (from the cozy interior pack)

#### 5 - Advanced NPC-to-NPC interaction
Implement LLM-simulated NPC-to-NPC interaction.
- Action selection: An NPC can choose from a Sims-esque hierarchical taxonomy of common actions, or specify a custom action using natural language

#### n - Generated Item Assets
Use generated images for small items which fit into a single tile and have no animations.
- When new items are introduced, the in-simulation asset and an inventory icon are generated, to be used for all instances of the item.
- Initially use an off-the-shelf image generation model. Eventually finetune it based on a small set of inspiration assets to get consistent art style.